= querystring

A small and flexible library to parse and create HTTP query strings.

Many languages, libraries and application use different styles of query
strings.  Specifically, query arrays seem to take on many different forms
accross the web.  Some APIs use multiple name/value pairs with the same name to
represent arrays.  Others use the '[]' notation, and some even include an index
in the brackets.  Other APIs use a comma seperated list of values, with only
one name parameter.  querystring is meant to be flexible enough to create and
parse in any style.

== Usage

QueryString provides stringify and parse methods.  Both methods take an optional
hash as a second parameter defining the behavior of the function.

=== Stringify

Default stringify options::
  {
    :seperator => '&',             # between params
    :equals => '=',                # between key/value pairs
    :array_style => :seperate,     # or :combine
    :array_brackets => false,      # use [] with array_style :seperate
    :array_index => false,         # use indexes with array style :seperate
    :array_seperator => ','        # used with :combine array style
  }

The array_ options need some explaining.  For style, :seperated means that each
element in the array will get it's own name/value pair.  Combined means that
they will be combined into one name/value pair.

For seperate style, brackets is used to determine if '[]' should be appended to
each name/value pair.  If index is specified, then the index number will be put
inside the brackets, or appended to the name if brackets is false.

For combined style, we have the seperator option.  seperator is used to determine
how they will be combined.

=== Parse

Parse always parses into arrays for simplicities sake.  Every value is an array.

== Examples

  >> ########################
  >> # stringify
  >> ########################
  >>
  >> require 'querystring'
  >>
  >> obj = {
    :name => 'bob',
    :roles => [
      'maintainer',
      'contributor'
    ],
    :homepage => 'http://www.google.com/profiles/rcorsaro'
  }
  >>
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj)
  name=bob&roles=maintainer&roles=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro
  >>
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj, {:seperator => '*'})
  name=bob*roles=maintainer*roles=contributor*homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro
  >>
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj, {:array_brackets => true})
  name=bob&roles[]=maintainer&roles[]=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro
  >>
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj, {:array_brackets => true, :array_index => true})
  name=bob&roles[0]=maintainer&roles[1]=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro
  >>
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj, {:array_index => true})
  name=bob&roles0=maintainer&roles1=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro
  >>
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj, {:array_style => :combined})
  name=bob&roles=maintainer,contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro
  >>
  >> # Be careful with this because we do no check to make sure your seperator is sane.
  >> # '+' would usually be a bad choice since values can potentially have a space in
  >> # them, which is converted to '+' when encoded.  But you know what you doing, so
  >> # we let you go about your work.
  >> puts QueryString.stringify(obj, {:array_style => :combined, :array_seperator => '!'})
  name=bob&roles=maintainer!contributor
  >>
  >> ########################
  >> # stringify
  >> ########################
  >>
  >> require 'ap'
  >>
  >> ap QueryString.parse('name=bob&roles=maintainer&roles=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro')
  {
      "name" => [
          [0] "bob",
      ],
      "roles => [
          [0] "maintainer",
          [1] "contributor"
      ],
      "homepage" => [
          [0] "http://www.google.com/profiles/rcorsaro"
  }
  >> ap QueryString.parse('name=bob*roles=maintainer*roles=contributor*homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro', :seperator => '*')
  {
      "name" => [
          [0] "bob",
      ],
      "roles => [
          [0] "maintainer",
          [1] "contributor"
      ],
      "homepage" => [
          [0] "http://www.google.com/profiles/rcorsaro"
  }
  >> ap QueryString.parse('name=bob&roles[]=maintainer&roles[]=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro')
  {
      "name" => [
          [0] "bob",
      ],
      "roles => [
          [0] "maintainer",
          [1] "contributor"
      ],
      "homepage" => [
          [0] "http://www.google.com/profiles/rcorsaro"
  }
  >> ap QueryString.parse('name=bob&roles[0]=maintainer&roles[1]=contributor&homepage=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2fprofiles%2frcorsaro')
  {
      "name" => [
          [0] "bob",
      ],
      "roles => [
          [0] "maintainer",
          [1] "contributor"
      ],
      "homepage" => [
          [0] "http://www.google.com/profiles/rcorsaro"
  }






== Contributing to querystring
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Bob Corsaro. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

